Array of Structures – Practice Questions
The questions progress from basic array-of-structures operations to functions, initialization, searching, comparison, and updating. Use functions in every question.
Q1. Store and Display Student Details
Create a structure Student containing roll_no, name, and marks.
Read the details of 5 students into an array of structures.
Write a function displayStudents() to display all student details.

Q2. Display Products in Tabular Format
Create a structure Product containing product_id, product_name, and price. 
Read details of 5 products and pass the array of structures to a function displayProducts(). 
Display all products in a tabular format.

Q3. Search for a Student
Create a structure Student containing roll_no, name, and marks. 
Read details of 5 students. 
Write a function searchStudent() that accepts the array of structures and a roll number. 
Search for the student and display their details. If the roll number is not found, display 'Student not found'.

Q4. Find the Student with Highest Marks
Create a structure Student containing roll_no, name, and marks. 
Read details of 5 students. Write a function findTopper() to find and display the student who has scored the highest marks. 
Perform the comparison inside the function.

 
Q5. Initialize and Display Employee Details
Create a structure Employee containing id, name, and salary. 
Initialize an array of 4 employees directly while declaring it. 
Write a function displayEmployees() to display all employee details in tabular format. 
Do not use scanf().


Q6. Calculate Total and Average Marks
Create a structure Student containing roll_no, name, maths, science, and computer. 
Initialize details of 5 students using an array of structures. 
Write a function calculateResult() that calculates the total and average marks of each student and displays the result in tabular format.


Q7. Display a Product Table
Create a structure Product containing product_id, product_name, price, and quantity. 
Initialize the following 5 products using an array of structures: 101 Pen 20 10; 102 Book 50 5; 103 Bag 800 3; 104 Bottle 150 8; 105 Pencil 10 20. 
Write a function displayProducts() to print the data in tabular format. No input required.


Q8. Update Product Price
Create a structure Product containing product_id, product_name, and price. 
Initialize 5 products using an array of structures. Write a function updatePrice() that accepts the array of structures and increases the price of each product by 10%. 
After updating, call displayProducts() to display the updated table.


Q9. Find the Most Expensive Book
Create a structure Book containing book_id, title, and price. 
Initialize 5 books using an array of structures. 
Write a function findExpensiveBook() to find the book having the highest price and display its details.


Q10. Count Products Based on Price
Create a structure Product containing product_id, product_name, and price. 
Initialize 6 products. Write a function countProducts() that counts and displays the number of products with price greater than 500 and the number of products with price less than or equal to 500.


Key Pattern to Practice
struct Student { int roll; char name[20]; float marks; };
void display(struct Student s[], int n)
{
    // work with array
}

int main()
{
    struct Student s[5];
    // input
    display(s, 5);
    return 0;
}
Remember: s[i] represents one complete structure, while s[i].marks represents the marks member of the i-th structure.
